The rules are simple. Don't try to stretch them or find loopholes.

1). No multiplaying. You can not have more then one character on at any time.
Also, you can not transfer objects or gold from one character to the other,
directly or indirectly. That's especially concerns your mortal and immortal
characters. See rules for "Switching characters" below.

2). Bugs: If you find a bug when playing mortal, that can be used to your
advantage, post it on 1101 right away. If a bug is non-critical, post it on
1103. We try to remove all bugs from the game as soon as we can.

3). Cross-race. You should be out of the mud for at least 20 minutes when
changing races.  For Gods: you MUST be out of the game for at least 20 minutes
after immortal before entering mortal. However, you may enter God immedately
after mortal. You can work or read boards right away, but do not communicate
with the opposite side to avoid accidental transfer of cross-race information.

    From                  To                             Wait time
    --------------------------------------------------------------
    Non-pkiller mortal    Any Immortal                   <instant>
    Pkiller mortal        Any Immortal   <instant>, but restricted* 
    Any Immortal          Any Mortal                    20 minutes             

* An immortal must be wizinvis and avoid interactions with mortal's other side
  for 20 minutes after entering immortal. The only exempt is official
  petition/wiznet @ channel.

4). Test characters, should have their name start or end with 'test'.
They are exempt from most rules, but only for testing. They should not
group with regular mortals, or pkill.

5). Do NOT explore with your immortals, or BAD THINGS (tm) will happen.  It's
ok to look at some cool descriptions in other zones, but not consistently map
area. In general, immortals should avoid showing up in connected mortal
areas. You have been warned. (we'll be lenient... to a point)

5). God-Mortal interaction. For most cases, Maia (level 91-94) interaction
  with mortals should be no more than social. Unless you, as a God, know
  otherwise, you can not help mortals. 
5a). You can give mortals information that is more or less common
knowledge. As an notable example, you must not give cross-race information
gained either as immortal or mortal.
5b). In case of reimbursements, in no case should you reimburse your own
mortal. Wait for another qualified immortal to log in.
5c). Do not teleport mortal anywhere unless they are in an unconnected room
for some reason or they need to be removed from the game for reasons of
serious misbehavior.
