The rules are simple. Don't try to stretch them or find loopholes.  They do
not exist not to make life harder for you, but rather to keep it enjoyable for
the you and other players of the game. Please help us make this a nice place
to play by following the rules.

Definitions. In this text:
"Whitie"        means   {Human, Dwarf, Wood Elf, Hobbit, High Elf}.
"Darkie"        means   {Uruk-Hai, Orc, Haradrim}.
"Third side"    means   {Uruk-Lhuth, Easterling}.

1:  HARASSMENT AND RESPECT

Any form of harassment of other players is not allowed.  This includes
inappropriate comments and insults to not only members of your side
of the race war, but also to members of the others.  This also includes
actions made specifically to bother or annoy other players.  In addition,
this rule stretches even to player names and titles.

Return of the Shadow MUD demands from its players a constant showing of
basic respect for each other and for the hard work which has gone in to
the making (and, for the players, the playing) of the game.

2a:  NO MULTIPLAYING

No multiplaying will be tolerated. You cannot have more then one MUD character
on at any time.  Linkless players count for multiplaying -- to enter one
character you must RENT the other (if needed, reconnect and rent).  You may
own more than one character on the mud, but you must follow the switching
character rule (rule #5) to change characters.

2b:  NO EQUIPMENT TRANSFER

If you own several characters, you can not transfer objects or gold
from one character to another that you own, directly or indirectly.
The ONLY exception to this is as follows:  if you are stat-hunting, and
wish to keep your equipment between stat-hunts, this is permitted as long
as you DELETE the character before you recreate and get the equipment.

3:  BUGS

If you find a bug in the game, post it, or tell an immortal (see "wizlist")
right away, especially if the bug could be used to a player's advantage.
If you are caught abusing a bug for your own good, you'll get in trouble.

4:  PLAYER KILLING

There are two types of player killing on RotS.  These are:

Race-war Pkilling:  This involves killing players on opposite "sides" of
the game as you.  You will see these players' races only, for example,
'*a Hobbit*' or '*an Uruk*'.  See 'HELP RACE WAR' for details.

Same side pkill for good races: Whitie-whitie pkill is not allowed in
any circumstances.  Besides killing another whitie, whities are not
allowed to attack other whities or cast spells or use skills on them
which are offensive in nature.  This includes in "duel" situations,
which are equally prohibited.

Same side pkill for evil races: Pkilling of other characters on the same
side is allowed.  However, the killer is considered avenged after one kill, 
so repetative killing of the same character will not be tolerated, and the
offender will be punished.

5:  SWITCHING CHARACTERS

See the table below for the amount of time you have to wait before switching
from one character to another.  Keep in mind that this amount of time is time
spent rented -out of the game-, NOT time spent at the rent room, NOT time
spend in the starting room, and NOT linkless.

These rules also apply to characters of different people playing from the
same computer.  For example, if you are playing a character, and you rent so
that your brother can play, he and you MUST observe the table below.

Here is a summarizing table of how long you must wait to re-enter the
game after RENTING (not linkdropping) a character:

    From                  To                             Wait time
    --------------------------------------------------------------
    Whitie                Non-Whitie                    20 minutes
    Darkie                Whitie or Third side          20 minutes
    Third side            Whitie or Darkie              20 minutes

    Pkiller               Non-pkiller (SAME SIDE)        5 minutes
    Non-pkiller           Pkiller (SAME SIDE)            5 minutes

    Non-pkiller           Non-pkiller (SAME SIDE)        <instant>
    Any Mortal            Any Immortal                   <instant>
    Any Immortal          Any Mortal                    20 minutes

If you do not understand this, ASK AN IMMORTAL.

6:  COMMUNICATION ACROSS SIDES

See 'HELP RACE WAR'.

Anyone caught giving information to other sides of the race war, be it useful
or not, will be dealt with in the strictest manner possible.  This includes
giving it over ICQ, AOL Instant Messenger, E-mail, phones, or paper airplanes
if you feel so inclined.  Taunting and antagonizing the enemy is not only quite
acceptable, it is the only allowable communication between sides.

Obviously, we cannot monitor your activities.  We ask that you act in the best
interests of the MUD and keep your information to your side.

7:  CHARACTER TRADING AND OWNERSHIP

Logging on a character which you did not create is strictly prohibited.  This
includes but is not limited to such circumstances as: giving away characters,
trading characters, hacking characters, and sharing characters.  Ownership of
a character lies permanently in the hands of the original creator of said
character, and cannot be transferred in any way; you are not allowed to log
on or at any time play a character which you do not own.


For policy on name changes, read HELP NAMECHANGE
For policy on reimbursements, read HELP REIMBURSE
For policy on retiring, read HELP RETIRE




(new/modified help files):


RETIRE RETIRED

A retired character:
(a) will never autodelete with time,
(b) will not have to pay for rent,
(c) will not be able to play the game while retired, being placed in a
    secluded room away from the game world where they can talk with
    players and read the boards to catch up on current events, and
(d) will not be allowed to unretire until at least one month after
    retiring.

You may have a character retired for one of two reasons:
(1) You will be unable to play the character for a long period of time,
    and the character is of a low enough level that it might be at risk
    of autodeletion while you are away, or
(2) You are leaving the mud for a very long, yet perhaps indefinite
    amount of time and wish to have all of your characters flagged as
    "retired" to show this.

Some reasons you do not retire for:
(-) to make a point to the staff about the latest code change.
(-) to make a point to the other side that their pk strategy is childish.
(-) you are about to have a tough week of school.
(-) you just died and are throwing a fit.
(-) many, many more!


NAMECHANGE NAME-CHANGE

Characters are allowed one name-change.  A name-change may be requested
and granted if your current name does not fit well in a Middle-Earth
setting.  The name-change will be noted in that character's exploits,
and be made known to the player base.

Characters are not allowed a name-change because they are tired of their
current name, or because they wish to change how they are viewed by other
players, or because they seek to hide their identity.

Characters with offensive or extremely untolkien, improper names will be
forced to change their name.


REIMBURSE REIMBURSEMENTS

No reimbursements will be given out. While the game is imperfect, and
your character may sometimes suffer "unfairly", there will be no
compensation of any kind either for the game rough edges or for real-life
problems beyond our control.  Exception: when a reimbursement is declared
on the news board, the post will supercede this rule.

This is especially true for deaths or losses due to network or internet
"lag" or timeouts.  If there is a timeout at the MUD end of things, all
players will have no access to the MUD.  In this case, an exception (see
above) may be made.  In all other cases, we can't be held responsible.

If a reimbursement posting is made and subsequently removed, the excuse
"I didn't read the news" will not be acceptable.
