ALL LIST

>specialize <spec_name>
>specialize

   After you become reknown and proficient in your abilities, you can
choose an area to concentrate on, in your life. The effects of your
selection vary, and can add to your abilities no matter what class you
belong to.

   Typing "specialize" without arguments will list your options. Once
you have chosen, you stay with this specialization thereon. However,
pracreset will purge your specialization, too.  (Free pracreset is a
test feature, and will be eventually disabled).

   Elemental specializations make your spells cast from the associated element
harder to save against and your spells cast from the opposing element easier to
save against.  Additionally, you are better at saving against spells from your
chosen element (and take reduced damage from such spells), but have a harder
time saving against spells from the opposing element (and take increased 
damage from such spells).  Each elemental specialization also enhances 
individual spells in unique ways, as described by the specialization.

   Currently, you can specialize in the following:
   
  Fire          - * Increases the minimum damage of "firebolt".
                  * Increases the damage of "fireball".
				  * Increase the fire portion of "searing darkness".
				  * Opposes: Cold

  Cold          - * Increases the damage of "chill ray".
                  * "Cone of cold" now applies a chilling effect to its target.
				  * Opposes: Fire
  
  Lightning     - * Increases the damage of "lightning bolt".
                  * Allows "lightning strike" to be cast outdoors without 
				    lightning at reduced effectiveness.
				  * Opposes: Darkness

  Darkness      - * Increases the damage of "dark bolt".
                  * Increases the darkness portion of "searing darkness".
				  * Slightly increases the damage of "spear of darkness".
				  * Opposes: Lightning
				  
  Teleportation - On this way of a traveler, your transportation spells
                  will carry you farther. See SPELL BEACON
 
  Regeneration  - This specialization enhances healing magic.  Specifically:
                  * Increases the effectiveness of "curing saturation",
                    "restlessness", "vitality", "regeneration", "cure self",
					and "vitalize self".
				  * Be warned that some negative effects of
				    those spells also increase proportionally. The spec
                    does not grant you higher spells/powers.

  Protection    - This specialization enhances defensive magic.  Specifically:
                  * Grants the "protection" power.  See POWER PROTECTION.
                  * Makes "evasion" power more effective.
				  * Makes "resist magic" power more effective.
				  * Makes "shield" spell more effective.
				  
  Illusion      - The art of confusing and misguiding everybody.
                  * Grants the "confuse" power.  See POWER CONFUSE.
				  * Makes the "fear", "terror", and "haze" powers last longer.
				  * Makes "halluciation" stronger.

  Guardian      - The powerful art of summoning a Guardian mob to aid you
                  through your adventures. See POWER GUARDIAN
				 
  Animals       - This specialization enhances your bond with animals.  
                  Specifically:
                  * Grants "whistle" skill.  See SKILL WHISTLE.
				  * Allows you to tame more powerful animals.
				  * The "calm" skill is faster and more successful.
				  * Tamed pets can keep up with you better.

  Stealth       - Will help you to avoid and cheat your enemies. 
                  * Grants new skills, "stalk" and "cover".
                    See SKILL STALK and SKILL COVER.
				  * Increases the success of hiding, sneaking, and ambushing.
  
  Archery       - Makes you more effective using bows.
                  * Allows you to set your shooting speed.

  Arcane	- Makes you a master of all mage spells.
  		  * Allows you to set your casting speed.

  Wild fighting - Grants you an occasional rush of ferocity in battle,
                  which significantly increases the damage of your next swing.
				  When low on health and berserk, attack speed is increased.
				  Recover some missing health when scoring a meaningful kill on berserk.
				  Also gaints the skill "wild swing".  See SKILL WILD SWING.
				  Ideal for warriors.
				 
  Light fighting- Makes you a master of fighting with light weapons and armor.
                  Your ranger levels and dexterity contribute to offense, and light
				  armor does not restrict your movement or skills.  Ideal for
				  warriors, swashbucklers, and rangers.

  Heavy fighting- Makes you a master of fighting with heavy weapons and armor,
                  making the armor more effective and less restrictive on your 
				  movement and skills.  Ideal for warriors and anyone that wants
				  extra defense in heavy armor.

  Defender      - Makes you a master of fighting with shields, allowing you to
                  take reduced damage.  Ideal for warriors and swashbucklers.
				
  Weapon Master - Makes you a master of a variety of weapons, each granting a passive
                  and active effect.  Ideal for warriors.
				  
				  
  Battle Mage - Makes you a master of casting spells in combat.
                Ideal for mages and mage/warriors.
		  
   Once made, the selection cannot be changed. Appropriate guildmasters
will teach you your new skills at your own time.
#
ARCHERY

If you specialize in archery you will be able to set your shooting speed. There
are three shooting modes FAST, NORMAL, and SLOW. Setting your speed to FAST
will reduce the tics of shooting by half and decrease the damage by half. While
setting your speed to SLOW will double the tics of shooting and double the damage
of your shots, and NORMAL setting keep your archery speed to normal tics and damage.

Syntax:

> set shooting fast
> set shooting normal
> set shooting slow

SEE ALSO: "SKILLS ARCHERY"
#
STEALTH

Specializing in stealth will help you avoid being detected while sneaking and
hiding. This specialization grants you two skills "stalk" and "cover". In
addition it also increases the damage done by ambush.

SEE ALSO: "SKILLS STEALTH STALK COVER AMBUSH"
#
"WILD FIGHTING"

Specializing in wild fighting will grant you an occasional rush of ferocity
in battle, which significantly increases the damage of your next swing. The
probability of this happening is based on your warrior level. Wild fighting
speicialization also grants you access to the "swing" skill.

SEE ALSO: "SKILLS SWING"
#
ARCANE

If you specialize in arcane you will be able to set your mage spells casting
time. There are three casting modes FAST, NORMAL, and SLOW. Setting your 
casting time to FAST will decrease the tics required to cast a spell by half,
while increasing the mana cost by double. Setting your casting time to SLOW
will increase the tics required to cast a spell by double and reducing the
mana cost by half. While setting your casting speed to normal will have
your mage spells function as they typically do.

Syntax:
> set casting fast
> set casting normal
> set casting slow
#
FIRE

Specializing in fire will make all mage spells of the fire type more effective
against your opponents. Fire spec also increases the minimal damage done by 
the spells "firebolt" and "fireball". When you specialize in fire saving
against cold spells is harder to do, and players specializaed in cold have
a harder time saving against your spells.

#
COLD

Specializing in cold will make all mage spells of the cold type more effective
against your opponents. Cold spec also adds a freeze affect to the spell
"cone of cold". When you specialize in cold saving against fire spells is harder
to do, and players specialized in fire have a harder time saving against your
spells.

#
DARKNESS

Specializing in the darkness will make all mage spells with the dark descriptor
more effective against your opponents. When you specialize in darkness saving
against lightning spells is harder to do, and players specialized in lightning
have a harder time saving against your spells.

#
LIGHTNING

Specializing in lightning will make all mage spells of the lightning type more
effective against your opponents. This specialization allows you to cast 
"lightning bolt" inside and "lightning strike" outside of a lightning storm.
When you specialize in lightning saving against darkness spells is harder to
do, and players specialized in darkness have a harder time saving against your
spells.

#
TELEPORTATION

The teleportation specialization increases the distance one can travel with
their transportation spells. This specialization also grants you access to
the "beacon spell".

SEE ALSO: "SPELLS BEACON"
#
REGENERATION

This specialization increase the effectiveness of all healing magic, be
warned that some negative effects of the healing spells are also increased.
The following spells and powers are effected by this specialization: 
"curing saturation", "restlessness", "vitality", "regeneration", "cure self",
"vitalize self".

#
PROTECTION

Specializing in protection enchances all defensive magic such as "resist magic",
"shield", and "evasion". This specialization also grants you access to the 
"protection" power.

SEE ALSO: "POWERS PROTECTION"
#
ILLUSION

The illusion specialization increases all mystic powers that are mind affecting
such as "fear", "terror", "halluciation", and "haze". This specializations also
grants you access to the "confuse" power.

SEE ALSO: "POWERS FEAR TERROR HAZE CONFUSE HALLUCIATION"
#
GUARDIAN

The powerful art of summoning a Guardian mob that is race specific to aid you
through your adventures. 

SEE ALSO: "POWERS GUARDIAN"
#
ANIMALS

Allows you to tame more powerful animals and giving them a slight boost to their
strength and damage. This specialization grants you the "whistle" skill and makes
calming animals faster and easier.

SEE ALSO: "SKILLS WHISTLE TAME CALM ANIMALS"
#
"LIGHT FIGHTING"

Specializing in light fighting makes you a master of fighting with light, one-handed 
weapons. You will occasionally find an opening in your enemy's defenses and swing 
twice at them.  This spec allows you to move and fight more easily in
light armor, and to use your dexterity instead of your strength for offense with light weapons
(if it is higher).  You also get to add a percentage of your ranger level to your warrior
level for determining your offensive bonus.  

#
"HEAVY FIGHTING"

Makes you a master of fighting with heavy weapons and heavy armor.  Your weapon attacks
with heavy weapons deal more damage. Heavy armor has less of a negative effect on you 
and blocks more damage. Also this specialization increases the success and damage of the 
skill "kick".

SEE ALSO: "SKILLS KICK WEAPON MASTERY"
#
DEFENDER

Specializing in defender makes you a master of fighting with shields. You have a 
chance to occassionally block an attack that would have otherwise hit you, and
significantly reducing the damage of the attack.

#
"WEAPON MASTER"
This specialization makes you a master of a variety of weapons, granting bonuses
based on the weapon that is wielded.  This spec is intended to offer high passive
damage and strategic options, allowing you to choose the right tool for the job
depending on the situation that you're in.

* Axes: Deal increased, and more consistent, damage.
* Clubs/Hammers: Extra OB, chance to slow your opponent on hit.
* Smiters: Extra OB, chance to haze on hit.
* Spears: Extra PB, chance to double armor penetration on hit.
* Whips: Extra attack speed, chance to ignore your opponent's shield.
* Flails: Increased damage, chance to ignore your opponent's shield.
* Daggers: Extra attack speed, chance to ignore your opponent's armor.
* Swords: Small extra OB and PB, chance to double your attack speed 
          for your next attack.

#
"BATTLE MAGE"
This specialization makes you more proficient at staying in battle while casting spells.
It provides the following benefits and drawbacks.
+ Lose ability to prepare spells.
+ Gain bonus spell power and spell penetration based on tactics and mage level.
+ Chance to ignore armor effects when casting.
+ Chance to continue casting after taking damage.
#~
